[narrator]
First you fall in love.
‐ Please be my girlfriend!
‐ [gasps]
Then you confess it...
[stammers]
and find it returned in full.
‐ [bell peals]
‐ Ask anyone,
and they’ll say
this is a wonderful thing.
[party poppers popping]
But they are so very wrong.
Even with
the cutest of couples,
there are power dynamics
at work.
There’s a side that gives
and a side that takes,
one who rules
and one who serves,
a winner and a loser.
[blade scrapes]
If it is your wish
to live a noble life,
you must not become the loser.
Love is no game!
It’s war!
Whoever gives their heart first
will be conquered.
[Japanese music playing]
[birds chirping]
[narrator]
Welcome to Shuchiin Academy,
a prestigious school
established many years ago
to serve the noble and
warrior classes of Japan.
Though the class system
has been abolished,
many talented students
born into wealthy,
distinguished families
attend this school.
‐ [boy] Good to see you.
‐ [gasps]
A student body filled with
so much promise and talent
‐ can’t be led by just anyone.
‐ Look! Over there!
They’re heading this way!
They make the student council
look so cool!
This is Kaguya Shinomiya,
V.P. of the academy’s
student council.
Her family owns
the Shinomiya Group,
one of Japan’s
top business conglomerates,
with over
a thousand subsidiaries,
worth 200 trillion yen.
She is the epitome
of well‐bred refinement.
Her brilliant mind is befitting
of her superior lineage,
as are the achievements
she’s made in various fields,
such as traditional
performance,
music, and martial arts.
That’s who she is.
But enough about her.
Let’s talk about
the guy she’s walking with.
The student council’s
president, Miyuki Shirogane,
a brilliant student
whose name tops the list
of any exam he takes.
Though he lacks
Kaguya’s upbringing,
his devotion to studying
commands great respect.
It’s rare
for a transfer student
to be elected president,
but in Shirogane’s case,
this is a testament
to his work ethic.
He bears the weight
of a solid‐gold braided cord
that’s been passed down
between Shuchiin presidents
for centuries.
[students murmuring]
[girl] Those two
look so good together.
[girl 2] As dignified
as they are smart, aren’t they?
[girl 1] Wouldn’t it be amazing
if they were dating?
Somebody should ask
and get the 411.
[girl 2] No way. That would
be way too presumptuous.
I could never.
[doors creak]
[closing doors echo]
[chamber music playing]
[Shinomiya] Have you heard?
We’ve become a topic of gossip.
People seem to think
we’re in a relationship.
Why am I not surprised?
Best to ignore it.
[Kaguya giggles]
Such a silly notion.
[Shirogane] So our peers
think the two of us are dating.
Hormones certainly have
an interesting effect
on the average teenager’s
imagination.
Although...
if Shinomiya
threw herself to my feet
and begged me
to go out with her,
I might consider it.
And it’s plain to see
that she has feelings for me,
so it’s probably
just a matter of time.
[chuckles]
Before long, she’ll pull off
that aristocratic mask
and come to me
with a blushing entreaty.
‐ [chuckling]
‐ [Shinomiya] I never realized
how ignorant
our student body could be.
It’s like they’ve
forgotten who I am.
My family is the beating heart
of this country.
How did my peers conclude
that someone with my upbringing
could ever lower herself
to date a commoner?
Well, then again,
it’s not entirely out
of the realm of possibilities.
If he got down on his knees
and offered me his body,
soul, and hometown,
it’d be a start.
He’s intelligent enough
that I could train him
to be worthy of me.
[chuckles]
I doubt there’s a boy
at this academy
who doesn’t pine for me.
He’ll be howling at my door
in due time.
‐ [laughing]
‐ [Shirogane chuckling]
[narrator] While they carry on
with these delusions...
half a year goes by.
Yeah, we’re skipping ahead,
because nothing happened
between then and now.
By the way, President,
they found a snail
in the apple and cherry relief
on the water fountain
in the courtyard
and removed it
before it could do any damage.
My younger sister caught a cold
from taking a dip
in the water fountain
when it was hot outside.
But that’s what you get
when you act before you think.
[narrator] During
this romantic stalemate,
their tactics
have become more aggressive.
This is no longer
a waiting game,
but an active battle to see who
will confess their love first.
This mental warfare
has raged for months,
completely unbeknownst
to its primary bystander.
[laughs]
Oh, that’s right!
Guess what happened, you guys.
Looky. Lady Luck was on my side,
and she helped me win
these movie tickets,
but then she abandoned me,
because it turns out
this is a movie
my parents won’t let me see.
Do you two want ’em?
Uh...
for the first time in forever,
my weekend happens to be free.
If you’re free too,
I don’t see why we‐‐
Rumor has it that boys and girls
who watch it together
become couples without fail.
‐ [gasps]
‐ So sweet!
[Shinomiya] I’m flattered.
You did just invite me
to go see this...
right?
‐ [gasping]
‐ Which of course means
you asked to take me to a movie
that makes boys and girls
who watch it together
start dating.
Why, if I didn’t know
any better,
I’d think you were, well...
Confessing
my friggin’ love to her!
[narrator] Oof! Yikes.
Give your heart,
and be conquered.
In the world of young love,
that’s an absolute law.
For two creatures of pride
such as these,
that kind of defeat
is not an option.
[Shirogane] What do I do?
Should I pivot to a plan B?
Well, we could always
sell them to a scalper.
Oh, my. I guess
even you get flustered
from time to time. [chuckles]
[chuckles]
You really are quite cute.
[Shirogane] Not happening!
But my escape routes
are blocked on all sides.
Looks like I have no choice
but to charge forward.
So do you want to go or not?
I don’t put much stock
in dumb rumors like that.
However, it appears
that you actually do.
I’m still willing to go
if you are.
It’s totally your call.
[narrator] Shinomiya’s mind
moves at breakneck speeds.
[Shinomiya] He didn’t retract
his invitation,
but he’s asserting
that any romantic significance
it might have
is coming from me.
Well played, President.
I could refuse
right here and now
and put an end
to the whole affair,
but then all of the planning
I did ahead of time
would be for nothing.
I went to the trouble
of fabricating a prize
and put it
in Fujiwara’s mailbox myself.
Oh, yeah!
I even made sure
it wouldn’t interfere
with the president’s
hectic schedule.
It’d be such a waste!
And it’s also quite possible
that if I turn him down now,
he’ll never invite me
to anything again!
It’s too great a risk.
I’m not willing to take it!
Well, you know...
I’m a bit of a romantic
at heart.
I can’t help but believe
in stories like that.
So if we do go see it,
I think you should ask me
with more passion. Don’t you?
[narrator] Playing innocent
skill activated!
It’s a negotiating tactic
passed down in her family.
It’s said that this
calculated expression and voice
can make even the heart
of a god skip a beat.
This mortal high‐schooler
doesn’t stand a chance.
[Shirogane] Pretty sure
I read somewhere
it’s the man’s duty to confess.
[narrator] He’s lost
in the maze of his mind.
And of course Shinomiya
recognizes her opportunity
and seizes it!
I have to admit...
I’m curious
about falling in love.
I’m at that age, you know.
[stammers]
[narrator] This battle of wits
is akin
to a high‐stakes chess match.
Shinomiya’s queen
has Shirogane’s king cornered,
but he isn’t out of moves yet.
Two prodigies dueling
with all their mental might.
You can hear
the wheels churning
in their brilliant minds.
Kaguya bolsters her defense.
Shirogane tries
to break through.
It’s a race to devise
a game‐breaking strategy!
Whoever forms a plan first
will win!
Oh!
If neither of you
are into romantic movies,
you can have these tickets
for Mr. Birdson of Birdville.
Birdson?
Of Birdville?
[narrator] Chaos theory.
The winner was nearly at hand.
‐ [squawking]
‐ But Fujiwara’s casual remark
adds an element of anarchy
to the equation.
It’s just one tiny factor,
but much like the big bang,
the chaos gives rise
to countless possibilities.
[steam hissing]
Our combatants
have a lot to process.
If you can’t tell
from the smoke...
‐ Is something burning?
‐ their brains are fried
from the exertion.
To keep their strength up,
they’re going to need sugar
and lots of it.
But the lone source of sugar
in the student council room
is this single steamed bun!
Thus...
whoever gets that steamy
goodness first will win!
Uh, I think it’s time
to head back to class now.
[grunts]
[mouth full]
See ya later, alligator.
[chuckles]
[Shirogane moans]
[narrator] This was
but one battle
in what will undoubtedly be
a grueling war
between two top students
with their prides on the line.
[school bells chiming]
[narrator] Yeah, that’s right.
This thing ain’t over
by a long shot,
because as long
as these two can think,
these two can scheme,
and scheme, they shall.
What’s this?
A letter?
Oh, my, my.
A love letter?
[Shinomiya] Yes.
It’s surprisingly romantic.
The boy even asked me
to go to dinner with him.
[Fujiwara squeals] Wait.
You mean he asked you out
on a date?
[Shirogane scoffs] Someone
wrote her a love letter?
That poor idiot.
Why would he think
that would work?
Shinomiya spends
most of her days with me.
And put next to me,
he’ll be lucky if he registers
as a talking weed.
There’s no way
she’s gonna go out with him.
So do you think
you’re gonna go out with him?
Well, sure. Why not?
[Shirogane] What?!
You’ve lost your mind,
Shinomiya!
Blindly accepting an invitation
from someone you’ve never met!
Writing a love letter like this
takes courage,
and he mustered his just for me.
How can I not fall
for a boy like that?
[Shirogane] Easily!
What, do you think
I’m just gonna stand by
and let this happen? No way!
I won’t let you go on a date
with that pathetic weed!
‐ [weed] Eh?
‐ Why not?
Does the mere idea of seeing me
wrapped in the arms
of another man not sit well
with you for some reason?
‐ [both laugh]
‐ [groans]
You really are quite cute.
[gasps]
Asking her
not to date this creep,
would be as good
as dropping to my knees
and shouting, "I love you!"
I won’t do it.
I can’t afford to.
Are you really
gonna go on a blind date?
Uh‐huh.
I think it’ll be fun.
[narrator] We’re only
12 minutes into episode one,
but I think
we know her well enough
to know she’s lying.
[Shinomiya]
As if I would really go.
Does she grow flowers
in her head
instead of brain cells?
[narrator] Yeah. Called it.
[Shinomiya] If he wants
to take me on a date,
he’d better start
by offering me a country.
I might consider it after that.
Because one thing I’ll never do
is date someone
as an act of charity.
[narrator] This is
one talking weed
that won’t be getting dinner
with her anytime soon.
She’s only acting interested
because she wants a certain
someone to intervene.
A cunning ploy.
They’re both too proud
and too stubborn
to own up to their feelings,
so instead,
they rely on their wits,
deploying clever traps
and subtle manipulations.
How can I nonchalantly
keep her from going? Think.
[narrator]
A test of intelligence.
[Shinomiya] Mull it over
all you want, President.
Unless you bow your head and
sincerely beg me not to go,
I refuse to cancel.
[narrator] Damn.
She thought this through.
It’s a plan
worthy of their war.
The only question is,
how will Shirogane respond?
There’s just one problem.
As student council president,
I can’t endorse you having
a relationship like that.
[narrator] Good form.
By speaking not as himself,
but as a concerned president,
he can oppose her
without seeming too invested.
Relationship like what?
We’re only going out for dinner.
Let an elder
be the judge of that.
Depending on
how they see things,
you could face suspension.
But if you insist on going,
you give me no choice.
I’ll have to run
your blind rendezvous
by one of our teachers.
‐ [gasps]
‐ The tattletale tactic.
It’s a highly effective,
but dangerous move,
as the person who uses it
risks being publicly shamed.
But that’s a risk the president
is willing to take.
He’ll do whatever he must
to prevent her date.
That kind of determination
demands respect.
[Shinomiya] I didn’t think he’d
resort to such dire tactics.
But this isn’t over yet.
Go right ahead.
It’s possible this is true love.
I’m prepared to risk expulsion
if that’s what’s necessary.
[gasps]
No, you can’t.
If it means
I can experience true love,
I’ll willingly offer
my body and soul.
"Body and soul"?
[Shinomiya coos]
[narrator] Kaguya
lands a direct hit.
Don’t be absurd!
How is it absurd?
He’s already shown me
his devotion
with his sweet words,
so now I’ll show him
my devotion
by risking expulsion.
[gasps] No, you wouldn’t dare.
Would it change things
if I confessed?
‐ [heart pounds]
‐ [gasps]
I mean, uh...
hypothetically.
Would you forget him
if I told you I loved you?
[gasps]
I...
I wouldn’t rule it out,
so maybe.
[sighing]
It seems like your feelings
are erring on the fickle side.
‐ [gasps]
‐ [chuckles]
If you find it that easy
to reject his sweet words
for another man’s,
then how true can that love be?
All I said was I maybe
would consider it, okay?
‐ [rattling]
‐ Right, ’cause nothing
‐ says true love like a "maybe."
‐ [gasps]
Stop playing it cool, you jerk.
If you wanna stop me,
abandon your pride.
I’m going!
‐ I don’t care what you say.
‐ [gasps]
Unless I get a tearfully
passionate love confession,
I really will do it.
President...
[sobbing]
I don’t want anybody
to come take you away, Kaguya!
[sobs] And I don’t want you
to get expelled!
[crying]
Please don’t leave me!
I love you more
than any boy does!
[crying]
Fine! You convinced me to stay,
‐ so get off!
‐ I love you so much!
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
Kaguya loses.
[music playing]
[birds chirping]
[girl laughs] It’s mine.
I’m not asking
for the whole thing.
Just give me a little sample.
Aww. You’re so pushy sometimes.
[giggles]
Say, "Ahh."
Ahh.
[shuddering]
It’s just vulgar!
But why get
so worked up about it?
They should be more aware
of the fact
that they’re representatives
of our school.
I mean, they were feeding
each other
in public like animals.
Honestly.
Have they no shame?
[gasps]
I think you need
to lighten up.
Did you bring a box lunch
with you today, President?
Yeah. My grandfather
who lives in the country
sent us a ton of vegetables,
so I put
my cooking skills to use.
[grandfather] Eat up, boy!
[choir singing]
[narrator]
This is Kaguya’s first time
seeing the rustic allure
of a commoner’s homemade lunch.
Her lunches are prepared
by her family’s private chefs
and delivered
to her school daily.
These nutritionally
balanced meals
are made by expert hands
with the freshest
seasonal ingredients.
That’s the homemade lunch
Kaguya has come to know.
But sausages, omelets,
hamburger steaks,
pickled plums,
she’s never seen such delights.
Ohh!
Packet‐seasoned rice.
All the cheap food
one could want
crammed into a tiny box.
It was a mini treasure chest.
[Shinomiya] Octopus sausages.
They really exist!
I want to try one. But...
[narrator] But she’s
too proud to ask for a bite.
Lunchtime! Cool!
You brought your food
from home today?
It looks good.
I know it does.
I made everything from scratch.
Uh, say, could I have
a teensy bite?
Sure. What do you want to try?
‐ [gasps]
‐ Dunno.
There’s so much to choose from.
[Shirogane] How ’bout
a little hamburger?
Ooh! I’ll take it.
[Shinomiya] No, don’t do it.
[sighs]
[shudders]
It’s out of this world!
Nothing makes
my taste buds happier
than the juice that spills
out of a hamburger
when I bite into it.
It’s like it
magically transforms me!
Eating it at room temp is best,
keeps the flavors locked in.
[Shirogane over transmission]
Here. Try this next.
Yay!
[giggles]
‐ [sighs]
‐ Fujiwara...
up until today,
I considered you a friend.
But if your life
were in danger tomorrow,
I would gladly
watch you perish.
[Shirogane] Uh‐‐ [gasps]
The heck?!
What’s with that
scornful glint in her eyes?
[tense string music playing]
I get it.
You think my lunch is
a poor excuse for a meal!
Oh, I’ll teach you
to look down on me and my food.
Mmm! Is that miso soup?
Yep. Rice tends to get cold
and hard by lunchtime,
but if you have it with
a piping‐hot cup of miso soup,
their textures merge
into something extraordinary.
See for yourself.
‐ Right.
‐ [gasps]
[Shinomiya] Wait.
Don’t take
from the part he ate from.
That’s an indirect kiss!
[Shinomiya shudders]
You kissed him twice!
[gasps] The rice...
it melted in my mouth and
slipped right down my throat.
Yes, just as using cold rice
for ochazuke
has been a longtime thing,
there’s fantastic compatibility
between a chilled side
and some warm soup.
It’s crazy delicious.
You’re a genius.
[laughs] You think so?
How ’bout that, Shinomiya?
It doesn’t have to be fancy
to be crazy delicious.
[Fujiwara] ...feel like
experimenting one day?
Is that how you made
this brilliant discovery?
‐ [in memory] Kaguya! Kaguya!
‐ You’re like the Isaac Newton
‐ of cooking, I mean it!
‐ Let’s go home together, okay?
Thanks for inviting me
to sleep over.
Kaguya! Kaguya! [crying]
It doesn’t hurt,
but the tears won’t stop!
Goodbye, Fujiwara.
We’re through.
[Shirogane] Oh, her death glare
got, like, 10 times worse.
But why?!
[Shinomiya] Very well.
If that’s the way
you wanna play it,
then that’s the way
we’ll play it.
Just you wait until tomorrow.
[Fujiwara gasps]
I think there’s a mythical bird
in your lunchbox.
[laughs]
Seems our chefs let their
imaginations run rampant today.
Yeah, looks really appetizing.
[Shinomiya] Of course it does.
So appetizing, in fact,
that you’ll have no choice
but to ask
if you can try some.
‐ [panting]
‐ Luckily for you,
I’m feeling generous.
Can I taste? [panting]
I guess. We can even trade
lunches if you really want to.
It really is the perfect plan.
He’ll start pleading
any moment now.
[horn plays]
Let’s all eat together.
Yeah, let’s.
Aww. You’re having
octopus sausages again?
Yeah. Part of
every balanced diet.
[Fujiwara] I just love ’em.
You are what you eat,
so eat something cute.
[Shirogane laughs] That’s not
what that saying means.
Is too! How do you think
I got to be so adorable, huh?
‐ [chuckles]
‐ [groans]
You got me there.
‐ President...
‐ [shudders]
I recall you have
a fondness for oysters, yes?
Her aura’s even more disturbing
than it was yesterday.
And why is she
randomly offering me
her crazy‐expensive food?!
She’s plotting something.
She must be.
‐ [footsteps booming]
‐ There’s no other explanation!
Oh, my. That quaint
little lunch of yours
really is quite cute.
How ’bout I lift you briefly
out of poverty
with a bite of mine?
[Shirogane] Is this out of
some warped sense of pity?
Well, I don’t need her charity.
I won’t take it.
I won’t be humiliated.
I don’t have anything to give
in exchange
for your high‐class food!
I just want
an octopus sausage!
Why’d you do that?
Didn’t it hurt?
You need to protect your brain!
[Shinomiya] Ugh. It obviously
wasn’t on purpose, Fujiwara.
What’s this?
You brought your lunch too?
Well, I did, but I didn’t.
The president was nice enough to
make an extra one just for me!
Takes the same prep to make one
as it does two.
[sighs]
It’s so good.
Thank you. I’m glad.
[Fujiwara] They say
you should paint your plate
with every color.
[Shinomiya] Repugnant creature.
Livestock in human form.
A prideless parasite
reliant on others to survive.
All that nutrition
to your chest,
and not a scrap to your brain.
I intend
to hold this against you
for as long as I live.
[Shirogane] Eh, she looks like
she’s ready to kill us both.
[mouth full] Almost forgot.
I have a club meeting.
[grunting]
[slurps]
[gasps]
[Shinomiya]
My tiny, little octopus.
Gotta go. Bye!
[woman vocalizing]
Look at me.
What am I doing?
I’m a fool.
[clothes flutter]
Here you go.
Now say, "Ahh."
Ahh.
It’s pretty good, right.
Come on. Let’s share.
[sighs]
‐ Fujiwara...
‐ Eh?
I’m so sorry.
I had a terribly inaccurate
image of you in my mind.
I know now that you’re human.
So did you think
I was some kind of alien?
[Shinomiya]
Don’t worry about it.
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle...
[Fujiwara] ...makes me
worry even more, though!
Kaguya wins.
Good grief.
He’s tougher to crack
than I thought he’d be.
We spent so much time preparing,
and he still hasn’t
confessed his love to me.
If I may...
hypothetically speaking, say you
found the man of your dreams
and fell in love with him.
Would he have to confess to you
before you could date?
Or would you be willing
to confess to him?
[narrator] The cunning
warfare of love,
a clash of minds
with the combatants’ hearts
and dignity at stake.
Well, hypothetically,
I would consider the risk
of someone stealing him away
and come to
the most rational conclusion.
And if I were genuinely in love,
I would.
[narrator] Try to understand.
Or I think I would...
probably.
She isn’t struggling with this
for some trivial reason
like embarrassment
or fear of being turned down.
The reasons behind her
hesitation go deeper than that.
They’re rooted in a myriad
of complex psychological and‐‐
Why does it even matter?!
Leave me alone!
[narrator] Sorry.